---
title: CES 2020
date: '2020-01-18T23:01:26.021Z'
type: post
path: /blog/ces-2020
draft: false
hero:
  image: ../images/mercedes.jpg
---
Earlier this month, I made the trek out to Las Vegas for CES (the Consumer Electronic Showcase). Although it's one of the biggest conferences held in the USA, many people only know about it because it's where the original Xbox was debuted back in 2001. In recent years, it has become a marketplace for luxury products that are fresh out of R&D with no vision of production anytime soon. Nonetheless, my experience in 2019 impressed me enough to journey back.

I attempted to jam-pack as much as possible into the 48 window I had at the conference. For sake of time, I've categorized what I saw into a few sections:

* My Favorite Interview
* Most Interesting Topic
* Tech Takeaways
* Most Ridiculous Product

**My Favorite Interview**

NFL on the Digital Frontier - Michelle McKenna, National Football Leage CIO

Michelle was interviewed for an hour on many different topics, from sports tradition to IOT. Innovation is somewhat limited by protecting the values of the game, but there are ways to find compromise. AWS is being used for **next gen stats**, where sensors on the players (and even in the ball) are constantly being streamed. Teams were skeptical to adopt at first, but have been convinced this is simply player data of the new age. Michelle makes sure tech is involved in all major NFL decisions and has her teams build flexibility into solutions so they can be iterated upon afterwards. Additionally, the NFL is aware that they cannot complete with tech firms, so most of their lead-age work will inevitably be outsourced to partners.

_"Technology should never be done for technology's sake"  - Michelle_

**Most Interesting Topic**

Jeff Ma (MIT Blackjack Team in the mid-1990s, main character of the film "21") was the moderator for a Sport Betting panel including Matt King (FanDuel CEO, Sara Slane (Vice President of Public Affairs, American Gaming Association), Scott Butera (President of Interactive Gaming, MGM Resorts), and Mike Primeaux (SVP of Product & Strategy, FOX Bet).

Sports Betting in general is a widely-debated topic, so I knew the panel would be interesting. Jeff asked Matt many difficult questions, and I was surprised how well he handled the pressure.

"9 out of 10 sports betters at FanDuel come from an international book" - Matt

The reason betters would switch are for lack of personalization on international websites and better liquidity. Men also make up a large amount of worldwide sports wagers with other demographics remaining  "untapped".

A major blocker for sports gambling in the USA is the wire act. This inhibits an exchange model (lower prices for the better and smaller cuts for the book) because you have to set each state as it's own exchange. The wire act would not allow for sharing between states on the backend.

Overall, the underlying tone seemed to favor more people playing more often with less money. This will probably hurt short term profits for major US books but will ensure their longevity as betters stay solvent for longer and feel more comfortable placing wagers.

**Tech Takeaways**

The word of the year is officially "5G". I cannot believe how much 5G was thrown around. I have it on my list of buzzwords to research so TBD if I've bought into the hype.

Additionally, IOT and smart devices were also a hot topic. I do see enormous value in virtual assistance breaking into more industries like logistics, healthcare, and transportation. There will have to be a distinction made for each company where a particular skill provides some business value. A large majority of technologies debuted at CES were very _cool_ but would not provide most companies any boost in revenue, time saved, etc.

**Coolest Product**

I geeked out a bit at the Delta booth, where it looked like they had constructed their own Iron Man suit to made transporting luggage as easy as moving your cell phone. Their bionic arm makes a 50 pound suitcase feel like holding a baseball. They are the first airline to experiment with a cyborg-approach to employee safety and time savings.

**Most Ridiculous Product**

My vote goes for the World's Largest 8k TV. It was a 120" 8K LCD display, perfect for literally nobody. I could walk to Best Buy and pick up a 4k Roku TV for like $400 during a holiday sale.